.TH MOANETE 1 "2026-03-28" "moanete 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
moanete \- offline-first meeting assistant with real-time transcription, insights, and Q&A
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moanete
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B moanete
is an offline-first meeting assistant that captures audio from your microphone,
transcribes it on-device with faster-whisper, and extracts structured insights
(suggestions, key points, action items, open questions) using a local LLM via Ollama.
.PP
A terminal UI displays insights in real-time and provides a chat interface for
asking questions about the meeting. On-demand summaries can be generated at any time.
.PP
When running in Ollama mode (the default), no audio, transcripts, screenshots, or
queries ever leave the machine.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-setup
Run the interactive setup wizard. Prompts for LLM backend, model names, and
validates that Ollama is running and models are pulled.
.TP
.B \-\-list\-devices
List available audio input devices and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-device " DEVICE"
Audio input device index (integer) or name (string). Overrides the
.B AUDIO_DEVICE
config value.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-overlay
Run without the terminal UI. Transcripts are printed to stdout as
.RI [ transcript ]
lines.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable debug-level logging.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH SETUP
On first run, if no configuration file exists,
.B moanete
launches the setup wizard automatically. It can also be invoked with
.BR \-\-setup .
.PP
The wizard prompts for:
.IP 1. 4
.B LLM backend
\- Ollama (local, default) or Anthropic Claude (cloud).
.IP 2. 4
.B Ollama host, text model, and vision model
(if Ollama is selected).
.IP 3. 4
.B Anthropic API key
(if Anthropic is selected).
.IP 4. 4
.B Whisper model size
(tiny, base, small, medium, large\-v3).
.PP
For Ollama, the wizard checks that the server is reachable and the configured
models are pulled, printing exact fix commands if anything is missing.
.SH TUI KEYBINDINGS
.TP
.B q
Quit the application.
.TP
.B s
Generate an on-demand meeting summary.
.TP
.B Tab
Cycle focus between panels.
.PP
Type in the chat input at the bottom to ask questions about the meeting.
The assistant uses the accumulated transcript and insights as context.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from
.I ~/.config/moanete/config.env
as KEY=VALUE pairs (one per line). Lines starting with
.B #
are ignored. All values can be overridden by environment variables of the same name.
.TP
.B LLM_BACKEND
LLM provider.
.BR ollama " (default) or " anthropic .
.TP
.B OLLAMA_HOST
Ollama server URL. Default:
.BR http://localhost:11434 .
.TP
.B OLLAMA_MODEL
Text model for analysis and chat. Default:
.BR llama3.2 .
.TP
.B OLLAMA_VISION_MODEL
Vision model for screen description. Default:
.BR llava .
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
API key for the Anthropic backend. Required only when
.BR LLM_BACKEND=anthropic .
.TP
.B WHISPER_MODEL
faster-whisper model size. Default:
.BR base .
Accepted values:
.BR tiny ", " base ", " small ", " medium ", " large\-v3 .
.TP
.B AUDIO_DEVICE
Default audio input device index or name. Empty means system default.
.SH MODEL RECOMMENDATIONS
.TS
allbox tab(|);
lb lb lb
l l l.
Use case|Model|RAM
Text (fast)|llama3.2|4 GB
Text (better)|llama3.1:8b|8 GB
Text (best local)|llama3.3:70b|40 GB
Vision|llava|8 GB
Vision (small)|llava:7b|6 GB
Low RAM|llama3.2:1b|2 GB
.TE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
All configuration variables listed above can be set as environment variables.
Environment variables take precedence over the config file.
.PP
.nf
.RS
OLLAMA_MODEL=llama3.1:8b moanete
WHISPER_MODEL=small moanete \-\-no\-overlay
.RE
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/moanete/config.env
User configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run the setup wizard:
.PP
.RS
.nf
moanete \-\-setup
.fi
.RE
.PP
List audio devices:
.PP
.RS
.nf
moanete \-\-list\-devices
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start with a specific microphone and verbose logging:
.PP
.RS
.nf
moanete \-\-device 2 \-v
.fi
.RE
.PP
Headless mode (no TUI, stdout only):
.PP
.RS
.nf
moanete \-\-no\-overlay
.fi
.RE
.PP
Override model at runtime:
.PP
.RS
.nf
OLLAMA_MODEL=mistral moanete
.fi
.RE
.SH PREREQUISITES
.TP
.B Ollama
Must be installed separately from
.UR https://ollama.com
.UE .
Start with
.BR "ollama serve" .
Pull models with
.BR "ollama pull llama3.2" .
.TP
.B Audio input
At least one working microphone or audio input device.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit (quit via
.B q
or Ctrl\-C).
.TP
.B 1
Configuration error (e.g. missing API key for Anthropic backend).
.SH PRIVACY
In Ollama mode, all processing is local:
.IP \(bu 2
Audio is captured and transcribed on-device by faster-whisper.
.IP \(bu 2
Transcripts are analyzed locally by Ollama.
.IP \(bu 2
No data is sent to the internet.
.PP
In Anthropic mode, transcripts and queries are sent to the Anthropic API.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/vzsoares/moanete/issues
.UE .
.SH AUTHORS
vzsoares
